---
layout: post
title: Where data makes a difference for the future
subtitle: Foundations of Data Science
author: Insung
categories: [Google Advanced Data Analytics]
tags: [Data Science, Google]
top:
---

## Where Data Makes a Difference for The Future
The data science field is dynamic, spanning a variety of industries. For you and other data professionals searching for new job prospects, there are great opportunities across a spectrum of career fileds. As you start to think about your own future role in data science, it can help yo investigate how data is being used within different industries. In this reading, you'll consider some examples of industries and how data science helps guide them. You'll also consider the future of data science and how the field is still evolving!

There are so many different industries taking advantage of data science in so many different ways. Here is just a sample of some of these industries and how they use data:

| Industry | Overview | How data is used |
|---------|---------|----------------|
| App-driven business (sharing economy service) | Facilitates users acquiring, providing, or sharing access to goods and services, often through online or app-based communities | <ul><li>Maintaining functioning mobile applications</li><li>Delivering customised content based on user history including discounts</li><li>Using machine learning models to send notifications at key times or locations</li></ul> |
| Automotive | Includes industries associated with the production, wholesaling, retailing, and maintenance of motor vehicles | <ul><li>Gaining greater control over supply chains</li><li>Improving production line performance and vehicle design</li><li>Enhancing vehicle safety and adding new features</li></ul> |
| Cybersecurity | Protects networks, devices, and data from unauthorized access or criminal use and the practice of maintaining confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information | <ul><li>Locating weak points within networks and systems using predictive analytics</li><li>Defending against security attacks</li><li>Detecting data breaches through logic, models, and data tools</li><li>Improving the ability to identify attacks and respond to them with Artificial Intelligence (AI)</li></ul> |
| Digital marketing | Assist in advertising and promotional efforts of companies using the internet and online technologies | <ul><li>Translating customer interaction into actionable business data</li><li>Predicting user behaviors to personalise content and offers</li><li> Identifying patterns and trends that guide innovations</li><li>Determining the return on inverstment(ROI) of marketing efforts</li></ul> |
| Energy | Includes companies that explore, produce, refine, market, store, and transport both renewable and non-renewable energy resources | <ul><li>Analyzing real-time data from power systems and monitoring devices</li><li>Optimizing technologies, monitoring power grids, and predicting failures</li><li>Preventing accidents and malfunctions</li></ul> |


### Data trends for the future
As you can already tell, data analytics is an emerging field with a wide reange of exciting opportunities. And, even more exciting is the fact that big data is getting bigger. The need for people to undertsnad, prioritise, manage, and analyse that information is not slwoing down in any industry. Businesses will continue to rely on data-driven decision-making, fueled by both dimple trend analyses and more complex techniques like predictive modeling and forecasting.

Additionally, more complaines are storing all of their raw data within large repositories accessible across the organisation. As companies become more reliant on insights generated by this dat, there will be many opportunities for data analytics professionals to sue their skills and knowledge to organise that information and make it useful.

### Innovative technologies

Innovations in accessing this data are leading to new approaches in making data interconnected—meaning that there are still new and evolving ways businesses in different industries are going to use data in the future. Technology is also ever-changing and adapting to these new needs. Because of this, there will always be exciting new tools and data solutions to explore.

Artificial intelligence will continue to have a large impact on business, helping to streamline many areas. For example, an increase in sales is understood to be a direct result of forecasting product demand. Artificial intelligence helps companies ensure warehouse supply, keep items in stock, reduce delivery time, and boost operational efficiency through automating processes.

Additionally, artificial intelligence will combine with machine learning, business intelligence, and automation to deliver more personalized services to customers.

Offering additional services will push forward innovation, bringing computer applications and the sources of stored data closer together physically. This concept is referred to as edge computing. By closing the gap between data and computation, speed improves. This results in greater support of real-time analytics and the automation necessary to support the increasing number of devices that are becoming linked through the [internet of things](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Internet_of_things). 

An increasing number of data analytics tasks will be automated by creating, managing, and analyzing data in edge environments. Artificial intelligence and machine learning systems are only as equitable and inclusive as the people who create and train these systems. You will learn more about how you, as a data analytics professional, will need to take steps to ensure equity in the future. 

### Key takeaways

As you progress through your career as a data analytics professional, you will need to stay up-to-date with the latest trends and technologies used across different industries. The one certainty about the future of data analytics is that an increasing amount of data will continue to be generated and that new systems and innovations will continue to be developed, allowing data professionals an opportunity to learn, grow, and develop new skills.